---
id: library-of-babel
title: "Notes from the Library of Babel"
description: "Notes From the Library of Babel: Counter Culture in the Gen-AI Era"
author: Gaston Otero
date: "2025-06-04"
---

The [Library of Babel](https://sites.evergreen.edu/politicalshakespeares/wp-content/uploads/sites/226/2015/12/Borges-The-Library-of-Babel.pdf) is a short story by the Argentinian author Jorge Luis Borges, that refers to a universe, in the shape of a library, which contains books for all the different possible permutations of the language. This means: every thought, word, or idea ever imagined.

> When it was announced that the Library contained all books, the first
> reaction was unbounded joy. All men felt themselves the possessors of an
> intact and secret treasure. There was no personal problem, no world problem,
> whose eloquent solution did not exist.
>
> [...]
>
> That unbridled hopefulness was succeeded, naturally enough, by a
> similarly disproportionate depression. The certainty that some bookshelf in
> some hexagon contained precious books, yet that those precious books
> were forever out of reach, was almost unbearable.

_Library of Babel, by Jorge Luis Borges_

## Counter-Culture in the Gen-AI Era

Finding useful information on the web nowadays feels like scouring through the _Library of Babel_.
Ad incentives, SEO hacking, and autogenerated content plummeted the quality of information to the ground.
Add to the mix an ever-growing workplace culture of nihilism, un-professionalism, and overall laziness (_oh, I just pushed this vibe-coded feature straight to production, who cares what will happen hehe_) and the result is a ticking time bomb waiting for the worst moment to detonate.

You need to become immune to the [_doomeristic_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doomer) AI propaganda. Economic opportunism, over-hyped valuations, and stakes far higher than we can imagine pushed companies and CEOs to make big promises to keep the ball rolling _just one more time_. Rest assured that the [Sword of Damocles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Damocles) is probably not hanging over your head, but theirs.

Besides, if we software engineers become easily replaceable, what kind of guarantees do other white-collar professions have? We'll have greater things to worry about. Keep in mind that by _white-collar_, I'm even talking about the C-suite.

What's the best way to fight this? By finding, reading, consuming, and creating **good quality, human-made, hand-crafted** resources. Yes, nowadays reading a good book is an act of rebellion, an act of counter-culture.

This repository, article, or whatever you want to call it, will serve as a guide, a life jacket, or a lifeline to help you and I navigate the seemingly never-ending _modern-day Library of Babel_. Here I'll make a list of **personally vouched, curated, and good-quality** resources.

My only request to you is to collaborate. Step your foot on the break and take a moment to think. Stand against the system, and stop creating and consuming AI-generated slop. And remember, this is not an anti-AI crusade, it's just a reminder that we should use these tools as a crutch, without letting them consume half our brains. So please, if this resonates with you, consider creating a **Pull Request** or **Forking** this to curate your own list of resources.

My idea is not to put just _any good_ resource, but instead the best of the best, _la crème de la crème_.

You can find the full Github repository here: [Notes From the Library of Babel](https://github.com/gastonoterom/library-of-babel/edit/main/README.md). It will contain all the updated, curated and filtered resources.
